# It Says

I have trouble understanding a phrase — "it says” — I recently read from a magazine called The Economist.

I can’t find a native speaker in my real life who can help me with it, so here I ask.

“Mr Erdogan promised to resign if Russia could provide proof. On December 2nd Russia’s defence ministry presented information it says does just that.”

The sentences are quoted above, in which there are two points I can’t understand.

First, it is the defence ministry or the presented information does “it” indicate? Besides, what does “says” mean here?

Second, there is another verb in original shape — “does” — placed right after “says”. Isn’t it wrong in the sense of grammar?

This question has been in my mind for days, I just cannot rid myself of it, so someone please help me.

It will be a lot better if you could present another example where I can use the phrase — “it says”.

Thanks with all my heart.

---

[The Post on Lang-8](http://lang-8.com/1358180/journals/124451071812929753520559867151831533600)

---

## Notes

"It" here refers to the defense ministry; the ministry is saying that the information it presented provides proof of the assertions. There is an implied "that" missing in "information [that] it says...", but it's okay that it's missing because it's a reasonably common expression. The phrase "does just that" is used to replace the phrase "provides proof", which was mentioned in the previous clause. To rephrase:
"Russia's defense ministry says that the information presented on December 2nd provides proof."
But, instead they chose "presented" instead of "says" as the main verb.
"Russia's defense ministry presented information [that] it says provides proof."
But, they didn't want to sound redundant, so they used "does just that".
"Russia's defense ministry presented information [that] it says does just that."
